>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, AUGUST 21: WITH MOST
NATIONAL POLLS SHOWING HILLARY
CLINTON PREFERRED BY 5 PERCENT
MORE VOTERS THAN DONALD TRUMP,
TRUMP TRIES TO GET BACK ON
TRACK.
A TERRORIST ATTACK IN TURKEY,
ALLEGEDLY CARRIED OUT BY A CHILD
BOMBER, KILLS MORE THAN 50
PEOPLE.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT THE
LIONFISH INVASION IN THE
ATLANTIC COAST OFF FLORIDA AND
BEYOND.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
NATIONAL POLLS SHOW HILLARY
CLINTON DOMINANT WITH AFRICAN-
AMERICAN AND LATINO VOTERS BUT
DONALD TRUMP IS MAKING HIS CASE.
AT A RALLY IN VIRGINIA LAST
NIGHT, THE REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE
REITERATED HIS RECENT PLEDGE TO
REACH OUT MORE TO BLACK VOTERS.
>> THE GOP IS THE PARTY OF
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
(CHEERS) AND I WANT OUR PARTY TO
BE THE HOME OF THE AFRICAN-
AMERICAN VOTER ONCE AGAIN.
(CHEERS)
ALSO, TRUMP MAY BE SHIFTING HIS
TONE ON IMMIGRATION, ACCORDING
TO PARTICIPANTS IN YESTERDAY'S
FIRST MEETING OF WHAT HE CALLS
HIS "NATIONAL HISPANIC ADVISORY
COUNCIL."
TRUMP REPORTEDLY ASKED FOR INPUT
FROM THE COUNCIL'S TWO DOZEN
FAITH AND BUSINESS LEADERS AND
FORMER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
AHEAD OF HIS IMMIGRATION SPEECH
IN COLORADO THIS THURSDAY.
TODAY ON CNN, TRUMP CAMPAIGN
MANAGER KELLYANNE CONWAY SAID
THE CANDIDATE'S PLEDGE TO CREATE
A NEW POLICE FORCE TO DEPORT
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS IS NOT A
CERTAINTY.
>> WILL THAT PLAN INCLUDE A
DEPORTATION FORCE?
>> TO BE DETERMINED.
NEW FILINGS WITH THE FEDERAL
ELECTION COMMISSION REVEAL
CLINTON'S CAMPAIGN HAD $58
MILLION CASH ON HAND AT THE
START OF AUGUST COMPARED TO $38
MILLION FOR TRUMP.
CLINTON'S CAMPAIGN ALSO SPENT
ABOUT DOUBLE WHAT TRUMP'S
CAMPAIGN SPENT IN JULY,
PARTICULARLY ON TV ADS.
FACING QUESTIONS ABOUT ITS
FUNDING AND POTENTIAL CONFLICTS
OF INTEREST, THE CLINTON
FAMILY'S FOUNDATION HAS
ANNOUNCED IT WILL NO LONGER
ACCEPT CORPORATE AND FOREIGN
DONATIONS.
IF HILLARY CLINTON WINS THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
HER CAMPAIGN MANAGER, ROBBY
MOOK, EXPLAINED WHY EARLIER
TODAY ON ABC.
>> LOOK, WHAT THE FOUNDATION IS
SAYING IS THAT THEY DON'T WANT
TO BECOME A DISTRACTION; THEY
WANT TO GO AS FAR AS THEY
POSSIBLY CAN TO AVOID ANY
CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
HILLARY CLINTON HAD NO PUBLIC
EVENTS THIS WEEKEND BUT HELD
FUNDRAISERS TODAY IN ATLANTA,
GEORGIA, AND IN PROVINCETOWN,
MASSACHUSETTS, WHERE SHE WAS
JOINED BY ENTERTAINER CHER.
AT LEAST 105 RESIDENCES AND 213
OTHER BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN
DESTROYED IN THE SO-CALLED "BLUE
CUT" FIRE THAT BURNED THROUGH 58
SQUARE MILES OF SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA MOUNTAIN COMMUNITIES
IN THE PAST WEEK.
THE FIRE IS NOW 73% CONTAINED,
BUT SIX OTHER WILDFIRES ARE
BURNING IN THE STATE.
AS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S MORI
ROTHMAN REPORTS, THE CONSTANT
ALARMS TAKE A TOLL ON
FIREFIGHTERS.
>> Reporter: BATTALION CHIEF
MIKE BROWN HAS BEEN FIGHTING
FIRES IN CALIFORNIA FOR 26
YEARS.
BUT HE'S NEVER SEEN A FIRE QUITE
LIKE "THE BLUE CUT FIRE" IN
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA'S SAN
BERNARDINO COUNTY, 60 MILES EAST
OF LOS ANGELES.
>> IT WAS LIKE AN ANGRY FIRE.
THESE WERE 50 TO 100 FOOT FLAME
LENGTHS, AND I WAS JUST AMAZED
TO SEE THE VOLUME OF THE FIRE.
>> Reporter: IN AN EVER
LENGTHENING WILDFIRE SEASON,
BROWN IS DISPATCHED TO FIRES
LIKE THIS MORE OFTEN-- FOR DAYS
AT A TIME.
THIS IS HIS SECOND WILDFIRE IN
TWO WEEKS.
>> FIRES ARE YEAR ROUND, AND
WE'VE KIND OF COME TO THE POINT
THAT WE UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S A
YEAR ROUND FIRE SEASON FOR US.
>> Reporter: CALIFORNIA'S
WILDFIRE SEASON TRADITIONALLY
BEGAN IN THE SUMMER, WHEN
VEGETATION DRIED OUT, AND
FORESTS BECAME MORE FLAMMABLE.
BUT FIVE YEARS OF DROUGHT AND
HOTTER THAN AVERAGE
TEMPERATURES, HAVE SHRUNK THE
BREAK BETWEEN ONE YEAR'S FIRE
SEASON AND THE NEXT.
DRIER CONDITIONS ALSO CONTRIBUTE
TO THE RAPID SPREAD AND
DESTRUCTIVENESS OF THE FIRES.
WHAT MAKES A FIRE LIKE THIS SO
DANGEROUS?
>> THE REASON WHY IT'S SO
DANGEROUS IS THE INTENSITY THAT
IT'S BURNING.
THE VEGETATION WAS VERY DENSE.
WE HAD 70 YEAR BRUSH THAT HADN'T
BEEN BURNED.
NO FIRE HISTORY IN THIS AREA.
EVERYTHING WAS IN ALIGNMENT.
>> Reporter: VOLATILE CONDITIONS
LIKE THOSE IN THE "BLUE CUT
FIRE" ARE BECOMING MORE COMMON
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE STATE--
LIKE THE "CEDAR FIRE" AT SEQUOIA
NATIONAL FOREST LAST WEEK.
THOUSANDS OF FIREFIGHTERS HAVE
BEEN BATTLING MASSIVE WILDFIRES
ACROSS CALIFORNIA THIS SUMMER,
AND EXPERTS WARN THIS YEAR COULD
BE WORSE THAN EVER.
THAT'S BECAUSE DROUGHT, INTENSE
HEAT AND TREE-EATING BEETLES ARE
CAUSING A DRAMATIC RISE IN THE
NUMBER OF DEAD TREES, TURNING
FORESTS LIKE THIS ONE INTO A
TINDERBOX.
>> NORMALLY YOU HAVE FIVE
PERCENT OF YOUR FOREST THAT HAS
BED TREES IN IT.
>> Reporter: PAUL GIBBS IS A
SPOKESMAN FOR THE U.S. FOREST
SERVICE.
>> WE'VE NEVER SEEN ANYTHING AT
THIS LEVEL AND THIS TYPE OF
MORTALITY IN RECORDED HISTORY
THAT WE HAVE.
TO HAVE 50% TO 75% OF YOUR
FOREST AND DEAD TREES, THAT'S
UNPRECEDENTED.
>> Reporter: LAST WEEK, GIBBS
DEPLOYED TO THE "CEDAR FIRE" IN
CENTRAL CALIFORNIA TO STUDY HOW
THE DRIED OUT TREES FUELED THE
BLAZE.
HE SAYS THE WEATHER PATTERN "EL
NINO"-- WHICH TYPICALLY MEANS
WETTER CONDITIONS FOR NORTHERN
AND SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA-- MOSTLY
MISSED CENTRAL CALIFORNIA.
WITH LESS RAIN, GRASSES AND LOGS
DRIED UP EARLIER IN THE SUMMER,
CREATING MORE TINDER FOR FIRES.
PEOPLE THOUGHT MAYBE EL NINO
WOULD MAKE THIS YEAR'S WILDFIRE
SEASON A LITTLE CALMER.
HAS THAT BEEN THE CASE?
>> NO, NO, WE'RE SEEING JUST THE
OPPOSITE.
WE DID GET A PULSE OF RAIN, SO
WE HAVE A VERY HEALTHY GRASS
CROP THIS YEAR.
BUT AS WE GET TEMPERATURES IN
THE 90S AND OVER 100, 105, THE
GRASS DIES.
THEN YOU HAVE A COMBINATION OF
THE DRY GRASS, WHICH WILL CARRY
FIRE AND START FIRES A LOT
EASIER.
>> Reporter: GIBBS IS LOOKING
FOR THAT COMBINATION OF DRY
GRASS AND DEAD TREES-- HOPING TO
ANTICIPATE WHERE THE NEXT BIG
WILDFIRE MIGHT SPARK.
>> I THINK WE'RE IN STORE FOR A
PRETTY ACTIVE FALL.
BUT WE'VE ALREADY GOT FOLKS
WHO'VE BEEN OUT FOR A FEW DAYS
AND HAVE TO START WORRYING ABOUT
FATIGUE OF FIREFIGHTERS, AND
REALLY PACE OURSELVES BECAUSE
THEN YOU REALIZE THIS IS A MORE
LIKE MARATHON RACE THAN A
SPRINT.
>> Reporter: A MARATHON THAT'S
BECOME THE NEW NORMAL FOR
FIREFIGHTERS LIKE MIKE BROWN.
>> WE'VE HAD NUMEROUS FIRES OVER
THE LAST FEW MONTHS.
WE HAVE CREWS COMING OFF OF
FIRES, YOU KNOW COMING ON TO
THIS FIRE.
SO CREWS ARE TAXED WE HAVE
FAMILIES THAT ARE TAXED, SO IT'S
BEEN CUMBERSOME NOT ONLY FOR
FIREFIGHTERS BUT THEIR FAMILIES
AS WELL.
>> Stewart: TURKEY'S PRESIDENT,
RECEP ERDOGAN, IS BLAMING
TODAY'S TERRORIST ATTACK NEAR
THE TURKISH-SYRIAN BORDER ON A
SUICIDE BOMBER WHO WAS BETWEEN
12 AND 14 YEARS OLD.
THE ATTACKER SET OFF THE
EXPLOSION AT A WEDDING RECEPTION
IN GAZIANTEP, TARGETING GUESTS
DANCING IN THE STREETS AS THE
PARTY WAS ENDING.
AT LEAST 51 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND 69 OTHERS WOUNDED, INCLUDING
THE GROOM, THOUGH THE BRIDE WAS
UNHURT.
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN SAID THE
ISLAMIC STATE, OR ISIS, PLANNED
THE ATTACK, THE DEADLIEST IN A
SERIES OF BOMBINGS IN TURKEY
THIS YEAR.
THE WHITE HOUSE CALLED THE
ATTACK "BARBARIC" AND"
COWARDLY," AND SAID VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN WILL DISCUSS THE
FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM DURING
HIS VISIT TO TURKEY THIS WEEK.
IRAQ HAS CARRIED OUT A MASS
EXECUTION OF MILITANTS CONVICTED
OF A MASSACRE OF IRAQI SOLDIERS
IN 2014.
IRAQI OFFICIALS SAY 36 ISIS
MILITANTS WERE HANGED TODAY AT A
PRISON IN THE SOUTHERN CITY OF
NASIRIYA.
THEY WERE ARRESTED LAST YEAR
WHEN IRAQI TROOPS RETOOK THE
CITY OF TIKRIT.
THAT'S WHERE THE MILITANTS
KILLED AS MANY AS 1,700 IRAQI
SOLDIERS, AFTER ISIS SEIZED THE
CITY.
THE IRAQI SOLDIERS WERE SHOT TO
DEATH AFTER BEING MADE TO LIE
FACE-DOWN IN A DITCH.
THE PHILIPPINES' NEW PRESIDENT,
RODRIGO DUTERTE, IS THREATENING
TO HAVE HIS COUNTRY LEAVE THE
UNITED NATIONS.
DUTERTE CALLED THE U.N. USELESS
AND "STUPID" IN A RAMBLING,
OFTEN OBSCENE SPEECH TODAY, AND
CRITICIZED THE HUMAN RIGHTS
OFFICIALS WHO URGED HIM IN A
REPORT THREE DAYS AGO TO END
EXTRAJUDICIAL KILLINGS OF
ALLEGED DRUG TRAFFICKERS.
DUTERTE HAS VOWED TO DO WHATEVER
IT TAKES TO WIPE OUT THE DRUG
TRADE.
THE U.N. SAYS FILIPINO POLICE
HAVE KILLED 850 SUSPECTED
TRAFFICKERS AND DEALERS SINCE
DUTERTE TOOK OFFICE TWO MONTHS
AGO.
DUTERTE SAID HE ISN'T CONCERNED
ABOUT THE REPERCUSSIONS OF HIS
REMARKS.
THE SUMMER OLYMPICS IN RIO DE
JANEIRO END TONIGHT, AND ALONG
WITH THAT, FOR BRAZILIANS, A
GREAT DISTRACTION FROM A DEEP
RECESSION AND THE TURMOIL FACING
THEIR GOVERNMENT-- SPECIFICALLY
DILMA ROUSSEFF, THE NATION'S
PRESIDENT WHO WAS RECENTLY
SUSPENDED FROM OFFICE.
ROUSSEFF STANDS ACCUSED OF
VIOLATING BUDGET LAWS BY
ILLEGALLY MOVING MONEY BETWEEN
STATE-CONTROLLED ENTITIES TO
MAKE HER GOVERNMENT'S BUDGET
DEFICIT APPEAR SMALLER THAN IT
REALLY WAS.
THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL BEGINS
THIS THURSDAY IN BRAZIL'S
SENATE.
JOINING ME NOW BY SKYPE FROM RIO
TO EXPLAIN WHAT TO EXPECT IS"
WALL STREET JOURNAL" REPORTER
PAOLO TREVSIANI.
>> AND PAULO CAN YOU EXPLAIN TO
US WHAT TAKES THIS FROM CREATIVE
ACCOUNTING TO SOMETHING ILLEGAL
IN BRAZIL?
>> SO ABOUT 15 YEARS AGO, BRAZIL
CREATED THIS LAW, THIS IS CALLED
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW, BY
WHICH IT IS LIKE WHAT DILMA
ROUSSEFF IS ACCUSED OF DOING, IS
BECAME ILLEGAL AND SUBJECT TO
IMPEACHMENT.
>> DO HER ACCUSERS SAY SHE DID
THIS ON HER OWN?
HOW COULD SHE DO THIS ON HER
OWN?
>> WELL, WHAT THE ACCUSERS SAY
IS IT WAS HER RESPONSIBILITY TO
MAKE SURE IT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
EVEN IF HER MINISTERS OR WHOEVER
WAS WORK IN THE GOVERNMENT MADE
THE MISTAKE, IT WAS THE AC
ACCUSERS, STATEMENT, DILMA
ROUSSEFF'S FINAL RESPONSIBILITY
TO MAKE SURE IT HASN'T HAPPENED.
>> SHE IS GOING TO TESTIFY IN
HER OWN DEFENSE, WHAT IS HER
ARGUMENT SO FAR?
>> SHE SAID EVERYTHING SHE DID
WAS LEGAL OR AT LEAST IT WAS
BASED ON PRECEDENT FROM PREVIOUS
PRESIDENTS.
THE ACCUSERS SAY THAT THE SCALE
WAS MUCH BIGGER THAN ANYTHING
EVER SEEN BEFORE.
IT DOES BASE THAT OIL IS DOWN TO
POLITICS AT THE END OF THE DAY,
NO MATTER HOW MUCH LEGAL
ARGUMENTS PEOPLE TOSS AROUND
HERE AND THERE.
THE FINAL RESULTS IS THAT
PRESIDENT ROUSSEFF LOST
POLITICAL RESPECT.
SHE IS GOING TO TESTIFY, MONDAY,
THE 29th, THERE ARE GREAT
EXPECTATIONS AROUND IT.
IT WILL BE THE FIRST TIME SHE
TALKS EYE TO EYE WITH HER
ACCUSERS AND WE ARE ALL WAITING
TO SEE ANY NEW REVELATIONS SHE'S
GOING TO DELIVER.
>> Stewart: IN BRAZIL, THERE
ARE 81 SENATORS, 54 I BELIEVE
HAVE TO VOTE FOR IMPEACHMENT FOR
IT TO HAPPEN.
WHAT DO YOU ANTICIPATE WILL
HAPPEN?
>> THE FORECAST TIP, THIS -- AT
THIS POINT, THERE ARE 60 VOTES,
SIX MORE THAN NEEDED AGAINST
ROUSSEFF.
ABOUT 69 SENATORS VOTED AGAINST
HER, SO IT'S PRETTY LIKELY THAT
SHE'S GOING TO BE OUSTED.
>> Stewart: AND TO GIVE OUR
VIEWERS A LITTLE CONTEXT, CAN
YOU GIVE US SOME BACKGROUND?
>> THIS IS THE ONE OF THE MAJOR
CRISES IN HISTORY, A MAJOR
RECESSION, BRAZIL THE ECONOMY
HAS SHRUNK 3.8% LAST YEAR AND
IT'S LINING TO SHRINK AGAIN 3
POINT SOMETHING PERCEPT.
11.7 MILLION BRAZILIANS ARE
JOBLESS AND OF COURSE THAT IS A
MAJOR SOCIAL PROBLEM WITH THE
ECONOMY, INFLATION IS RUNNING
HIGH AND THERE IS ALSO A MAJOR
CORRUPTION PROBLEM, THAT IS
UNFOLDING AS WE SPEAK, AND
DOZENS OF POLITICIAN HE ARE
BEING ACCUSED OF -- POLITICIANS
ARE BEING ACCUSED OF CORRUPTION,
CLOSE CLOSE TO ROUSSEFF EVEN
THOUGH SHE IS NOT ACCUSED OF
ANYTHING IN THAT CORRUPTION
PROBE.
BUT WHAT WE HAVE FOR BRAZIL IS
ENORMOUS CLEANUP JOB, FOR THE
NEXT SEVERAL YEARS.
>> PAULO TREVISANI, FROM THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
BLS.
>> MY PLEASURE.
A BANGLADESHI-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
IN NEW YORK CITY WONDERS WHAT
COMES NEXT AFTER THE FATAL
SHOOTING OF AN IMAM OUTSIDE its
MOSQUE.
READ MORE ON OUR WEBSITE AT
www.pbs.com/newshour.
LIONFISH ARE NOW CONSIDERED ONE
OF THE WORLD'S MOST INVASIVE
SPECIES ESPECIALLY TROUBLESOME
IN THE WESTERN ATLANTIC OCEAN,
THE GULF OF MEXICO, AND THE
CARIBBEAN SEA.
THE FAST-BREEDING AND RAVENOUS
LIONFISH ARE NOT NATIVE TO THESE
WATERS AND ARE DEVOURING
INDIGENOUS FISH, INCLUDING THOSE
THAT MAINTAIN THE HEALTH OF
CORAL REEFS.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,"
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT YASMEEN QURESHI
EXPLAINS THE PROBLEM AND WHAT'S
BEING DONE TO STOP IT.
>> Reporter: FLORIDA'S SOUTHERN
COAST IS ONE OF THE MOST POPULAR
DIVE SPOTS IN THE WORLD-- HOME
TO THE ONLY TROPICAL CORAL REEF
IN CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES.
HUNDREDS OF SPECIES OF FISH LIVE
ALONG THIS REEF SYSTEM.
BUT THE FISH HERE ARE IN DANGER,
BECAUSE OF A FOREIGN PREDATOR
THAT'S BEEN DEVOURING THEM:
LIONFISH.
ERIC NELSON IS AN AVID SCUBA
DIVER WHO HUNTS LIONFISH UP TO A
HUNDRED AND THIRTY FEET BELOW
THE SURFACE OF THE ATLANTIC
OCEAN.
>> THEY CAN EAT 90% OF THEIR
BODY WEIGHT, EVERYDAY, IN FISH.
IN FACT, WE HAVE PICTURES OF
LIONFISH THAT HAVE BEEN GUTTED,
AND THEY HAVE 50 SMALL FISH
INSIDE OF THEM.
>> Reporter: NELSON AND HIS
TEAMMATES ARE COMPETING IN A
LIONFISH DERBY OFF THE COAST OF
BOCA RATON, FLORIDA.
IT'S A COMPETITION TO CATCH AS
MANY LIONFISH AS POSSIBLE BEFORE
SUNSET.
>> IT'S AN OBVIOUS SPOT.
IT'S A LITTLE CAVE.
>> Reporter: THE BOAT'S CAPTAIN
PAUL VARIAN IS A COMMERCIAL
FISHERMAN WHO'S BEEN DIVING
THESE WATERS FOR 16 YEARS.
>> I SAW MY FIRST LIONFISH
SEVEN, EIGHT YEARS AGO, MAYBE.
I REMEMBER GOING, "OH WHOA!
WHAT'S THAT? THAT'S CRAZY."
AND NOW THEY'RE EVERYWHERE.
THERE'S SO MANY OF THEM.
>> Reporter: LIONFISH ARE NATIVE
TO THE SOUTH PACIFIC AND THE
INDIAN OCEAN, AND THERE ARE
DIFFERENT THEORIES ABOUT HOW
THEY CAME TO INHABIT ATLANTIC
WATERS.
THE LEADING THEORY IS THAT A FEW
HOME AQUARIUM OWNERS SET SOME
LIONFISH FREE IN THE OCEAN IN
THE 1980S, AND THE FISH RAPIDLY
REPRODUCED.
SEVERAL SCIENTIFIC STUDIES HAVE
TRACED THE DNA FOR THE ENTIRE
LIONFISH POPULATION IN THE
ATLANTIC BACK TO A SMALL GROUP
OF FISH.
WHEN LIONFISH INVADE A REEF,
THEY CAN REDUCE THE POPULATION
OF FISH THEY EAT, BY 65 PERCENT
OVER TWO YEARS, ACCORDING TO A
STUDY CONDUCTED IN THE BAHAMAS.
HOW MUCH OF A PROBLEM ARE
LIONFISH TO THE REEFS IN THIS
AREA?
>> DIVING THE SAME REEFS OVER
AND OVER EVERY YEAR, YOU CAN
ACTUALLY REALLY NOTICEABLY TELL
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A REEF
THAT HAD LOTS OF REEF FISH
BEFORE LIONFISH INVASION, AND
THAN DEVASTATINGLY HALF AS MANY
REEF FISH.
>> Reporter: LIONFISH CONSUME
MORE THAN 100 SPECIES OF FISH,
INCLUDING BABY GROUPER AND
SNAPPER.
AND FISH THAT MAINTAIN THE
HEALTH OF THE REEFS BY GRAZING
ON ALGAE.
ERIC NELSON SAYS HE'S NOTICED
THAT THE HUNTS OFF THE COAST OF
FLORIDA ARE STARTING TO MAKE AN
IMPACT.
>> ONCE WE STARTED ACTIVELY
HUNTING LIONFISH, WE NOTICED
THAT THE SAME POPULATIONS ARE
COMING BACK.
>> Reporter: DURING THE PAST
DECADE, LIONFISH HAVE INVADED
THE UNDERWATER HABITATS IN THE
ATLANTIC OCEAN, THE GULF OF
MEXICO, AND THE CARIBBEAN.
SCIENTISTS EXPECT THAT THE
LIONFISH INVASION WILL CONTINUE
TO SPREAD FROM NORTH CAROLINA TO
THE SOUTHERN TIP OF BRAZIL.
ONE REASON FOR THE RAPID
LIONFISH INVASION IS THAT THEY
ARE FAST BREEDERS-- LAYING MORE
THAN TWO MILLION EGGS EVERY
YEAR.
LAD AKINS OVERSEES THE LIONFISH
PROGRAM FOR REEF ENVIRONMENTAL
EDUCATION FOUNDATION, THAT IS
DEDICATED TO MARINE
CONSERVATION.
>> THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT IS A
VERY COMPLICATED, INTERCONNECTED
SYSTEM AND IT'S TAKEN THOUSANDS
OF YEARS FOR THINGS TO WORK ITS
PLACE OUT IN BALANCE.
WHEN YOU INTRODUCE A NEW PIECE
TO THAT PUZZLE, IT DISRUPTS THE
ENTIRE SYSTEM.
>> Reporter: BECAUSE LIONFISH
ARE NOT NATIVE TO THE ATLANTIC,
THEY DON'T HAVE NATURAL
PREDATORS HERE.
AKINS SAYS THAT WHEN YOU COMBINE
THAT WITH THEIR VORACIOUS
APPETITES LIONFISH WREAK HAVOC
ON UNDERWATER HABITATS.
AND, LIONFISH HAVE BEEN FOUND AS
DEEP AS 1,000 FEET IN THE OCEAN.
>> WITH THE IMPACTS THAT WE'RE
SEEING IN OUR SHALLOW WATERS, WE
DON'T KNOW HOW BAD THIS IS GOING
TO GET.
SO OUR ENTIRE MARINE ECOSYSTEM
IS AT RISK.
WE COULD SEE EXTINCTION OF SOME
SPECIES OF FISH DUE TO LIONFISH
PREDATION.
WE COULD SEE SEVERE DEGRADATION
TO CORAL REEF ENVIRONMENTS, IF
ALGAE IS NOT KEPT IN CHECK BY
THE GRAZERS, WHICH LIONFISH ARE
CONSUMING.
WE COULD SEE IMPACTS TO
COMMERCIAL FISHERIES, TO GROUPER
SNAPPER, SHRIMP, CRABS.
>> WITHOUT NATURAL LIONFISH
PREDATORS HERE, THE MOST
EFFECTIVE WAY TO CONTROL THE
POPULATION IS FOR DIVERS TO
CATCH AND KILL THEM.
BUT THEY'RE NOT EASY TO CATCH.
THEY DON'T SWIM IN LARGE
SCHOOLS, AND THEY HAVE POISONOUS
SPINES THAT CAN STING.
>> THIS IS SAFE, THAT'S SAFE.
THEY ALSO HAVE VENOM RIGHT ON
THAT ONE AND THAT ONE, AND THEN
ALONG PECTORAL THERE.
THE PAIN CAN BE 50 TIMES WORSE
THAN A WASP STING.
>> THAT'S ABOUT AN HOUR AFTER
BEING STUNG.
THAT WAS IN TOTAL, ABOUT A THREE
MONTH ORDEAL.
>> Reporter: THE DIVE COMMUNITY
HAS STEPPED UP TO FIND SAFE WAYS
TO CATCH LIONFISH.
ONE DIVER DESIGNED THIS PLASTIC
CYLINDER THAT HE CALLS A
ZOOKEEPER TO STORE LIONFISH
UNDERWATER, AND PROTECT DIVERS
FROM BEING STUNG.
NELSON AND HIS TEAM USE POLE
SPEARS THAT HE ADAPTED TO MAKE
IT EASIER TO CATCH THE FISH.
HE CALLS THEM "LIONFISH
SLAYERS".
>> WHAT'S GREAT IS THAT
EVERYBODY IS PITCHING IN TO
ADDRESS THIS.
DIVERS ARE GOING OUT AND
SPENDING THEIR TIME, AND THEIR
MONEY TO GO OUT AND REMOVE
LIONFISH; GOVERNMENTS ARE
PUTTING MONEY AND EFFORT INTO
RESEARCHING BETTER TOOLS AND
TECHNIQUES.
>> Reporter: FLORIDA'S FISH AND
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION COMMISSION
HAS BEEN RUNNING A PUBLIC
AWARENESS CAMPAIGN ABOUT THE
LIONFISH THREAT AND CONTRIBUTING
PRIZE MONEY TO DERBIES TO CATCH
THEM.
AS THIS LIONFISH DERBY COMES TO
AN END, THE DIVE TEAMS HEAD BACK
TO THE DOCK FOR WEIGH-IN.
LAD AKINS' ORGANIZATION, REEF,
IS ONE OF THE SPONSORS OF THE
EVENT.
HE SAYS DERBIES CAN HELP
SCIENTISTS BETTER UNDERSTAND THE
SPECIES.
>> EVERY INDIVIDUAL LIONFISH
THAT'S COLLECTED IS MEASURED,
BECAUSE THAT INFORMATION IS VERY
USEFUL IN LOOKING AT IMPACTS AND
POPULATIONS.
AND THEN SAMPLES ARE MADE
AVAILABLE FOR RESEARCHERS THAT
ARE HOPING TO BETTER UNDERSTAND
LIONFISH.
>> Reporter: SOME FISH IS ALSO
DONATED TO RESTAURANTS TO CREATE
A HUMAN APPETITE FOR LIONFISH.
CHEF ANDRES AVAYU AT PICCOLO
RESTAURANT IN FORT LAUDERDALE
SAYS HIS CUSTOMERS LINE-UP FOR
TABLES WHEN THE SPECIALTY ITEM
IS ON THE MENU.
>> YOU COULD GRILL IT, SAUTE IT,
BAKE IT- LIKE IT'S FLAVOR, IT'S
REALLY VERSATILE IN HOW
PREPARATION IS DONE.
THERE IS NO RIGHT, THERE IS NO
WRONG.
IT'S ONE OF THOSE FISH THAT JUST
IS.
>> Reporter: ONE OF HIS FAVORITE
RECIPES, LIONFISH TACOS.
AND FISHERMAN HAVE NOTICED THAT
CATCHING LIONFISH CAN BE
PROFITABLE.
COMMERCIAL FISHERMAN PAUL
VARIAN, SAYS DEMAND IS
INCREASING.
EVEN WHOLE FOODS SELLS THEM,
WHEN AVAILABLE.
>> THEY'VE BECOME A PRETTY BIG
PART OF MY INCOME.
THE LAST YEAR OR SO, EVERYBODY'S
FINALLY FIGURED OUT THAT THE
GUYS WHO BUY THEM FROM US, THE
RESTAURANTS, THE CONSUMERS,
EVERYBODY LIKES THEM AND IT'S
WORTH IT.
EVERYBODY'S MAKING MONEY AND THE
CONSUMER IS HAPPY AT THE END.
SO NOW, THE PRICE HAS GONE UP.
DEMAND HAS GONE WAY UP.
I HAVE PEOPLE CALLING ME, I
DON'T EVEN KNOW WHO THEY ARE,
BEGGING ME TO BUY LIONFISH.
AND I'M LIKE SORRY, I'M JUST
SUPPLYING THE PEOPLE I'VE BEEN
SELLING TO FOR YEARS.
IF I COULD SHOOT A THOUSAND
POUNDS A DAY I COULD SELL IT.
>> Reporter: AS THE RESULTS COME
IN FROM THE WEIGH-IN AT THIS
DERBY, SOME PEOPLE ARE TASTING
LIONFISH FOR THE FIRST TIME.
>> I'M A SCUBA DIVER, AND I'VE
SEEN THEM UNDERWATER FOR A LONG
TIME.
AND EVERYBODY HAS BEEN TELLING
IT'S A NICE LIGHT, WHITE, CRISPY
FISH, AND A VERY MILD FLAVOR.
>> Reporter: LAD AKINS SAYS
POPULARIZING LIONFISH CUISINE,
MAY BE THE BEST WAY TO CONTROL
THE PROBLEM.
>> HERE IS A LIONFISH THAT NEEDS
TO BE REMOVED.
SO CONSUMING LIONFISH IS THE
BEST POSSIBLE OPTION.
ERADICATION IS NOT ON THE
TABLE.
LIONFISH ARE SIMPLY TOO
WIDESPREAD, TOO DEEP, TOO
INACCESSIBLE IN SOME AREAS FOR
US, WITH OUR CURRENT TOOLS AND
TECHNOLOGIES, TO REMOVE EVERY
LAST ONE.
SO WHAT WE'RE LEFT WITH IS
HAVING TO KEEP DE-WEEDING THE
GARDEN.
>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>> Stewart: SOUTH AFRICA'S
APARTHEID ERA-- WHEN SEGREGATION
WAS LEGAL AND THE WHITE MINORITY
RULED REPRESSIVELY-- IS
REMEMBERED AS A TIME OF RAMPANT
VIOLENCE AND DIVISIVENESS.
THIS SUMMER A NEW PHOTO EXHIBIT
SHOWCASES THE ASPIRATIONS AND
PRIVATE LIVES THAT SOME SOUTH
AFRICANS CARVED OUT FOR
THEMSELVES AMIDST THE TURMOIL.
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S" IVETTE
FELICIANO HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: THESE PHOTOGRAPHS
BY S.J. "KITTY" MOODLEY ARE PART
OF AN EXHIBIT CALLED "WHO I AM:
REDISCOVERED PORTRAITS FROM
APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA," NOW AT
THE WALTHER COLLECTION PROJECT
SPACE IN NEW YORK CITY.
IN 1957, AFTER BEING FIRED FROM
A SHOE FACTORY, MOODLEY OPENED A
STUDIO IN A WORKING CLASS AREA
AND SERVED MOSTLY "NON-WHITES"
LIKE HIMSELF.
IN LINE WITH HIS POLITICAL
VIEWS-- THAT'S MOODLEY AT A
RALLY-- HIS STUDIO IN THE 70S
AND 80S BECAME A SAFE SPACE FOR
ANTI-APARTHEID ACTIVISTS.
>> IT REMINDS ME VERY MUCH OF
AFRICAN-AMERICAN BARBERSHOPS.
>> Reporter: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
PROFESSOR STEVEN DUBIN CURATED
THE EXHIBIT AND SPOKE TO"
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" BY SKYPE FROM
SOUTH AFRICA.
>> PEOPLE CAN COME, THEY CAN GET
NEWS, THEY CAN SHARE NEWS, THEY
CAN TALK ABOUT IDEAS.
YOU KNOW, KITTY'S STUDIO, YOU
KNOW, SERVED THE SAME FUNCTION.
>> Reporter: WHILE
PHOTOJOURNALISTS OFTEN
DOCUMENTED THE PROTESTS AND
VIOLENCE OF THE TIME, THESE
PHOTOS TELL A DIFFERENT STORY.
>> EVEN UNDER THE MOST
RESTRICTED CONDITIONS PEOPLE
WERE ABLE TO FASHION LIVES FOR
THEMSELVES AND PERHAPS THEY WERE
ABLE TO IMAGINE LIVES FOR
THEMSELVES THAT DID NOT EXIST
BEFORE THAT.
>> Reporter: THE 38 PHOTOS ON
DISPLAY ARE OFTEN PLAYFUL.
A LADY WEARING A LAMPSHADE ON
HER HEAD.
THREE MEN DANCING.
MOODLEY ALSO CAPTURED THE
BENDING OF SOCIAL NORMS.
HERE A WOMAN WEARS TRADITIONAL
ZULU FEMALE ATTIRE, AND THEN
SHE'S SEEN IN PANTS TYPICALLY
WORN BY ZULU MEN.
ACCORDING TO DUBIN, DRESSING
LIKE THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
CONSIDERED DARING.
BUT MOODLEY'S STUDIO ALLOWED FOR
SELF-EXPRESSION DURING A
TURBULENT TIME.
HE DIED IN 1987-- SEVEN YEARS
BEFORE APARTHEID COLLAPSED.
THESE PHOTOS WILL BE ON DISPLAY
UNTIL SEPTEMBER 3.
>> Stewart: FINALLY ON THIS
LAST DAY OF COMPETITION AT THE
OLYMPICS, AMERICAN GALEN RUPP
WON THE BRONZE MEDAL IN THE
MEN'S MARATHON, THE FIRST U.S.
MARATHON MEDAL SINCE 2004.
21-YEAR-OLD CLARISSA SHIELDS
BECAME THE FIRST AMERICAN BOXER,
MAN OR WOMAN, TO WIN TWO OLYMPIC
GOLD MEDALS.
AND FOLLOWING IN THE FOOTSTEPS
OF THE WOMEN'S TEAM, THE MEN,
LED BY KEVIN DURANT, BEAT SERBIA
BY 30 POINTS FOR ITS THIRD GOLD
MEDAL IN A ROW.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NewsHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART, GOOD NIGHT.